Every data type in .net is an object
int x= 1;
implicitly compiler says int --> System.Int32 (struct) vAlue type
now this Struct implicitly extends System.Valuetypes class
therefore int is implicitly reference type

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1. int x = 1;
This line of code defines an integer variable x and assigns it the value 1.

Type of x: int is an alias in C# for System.Int32. So when you declare int x, the compiler interprets it as System.Int32 x.
Nature of int: In C#, System.Int32 is a value type represented as a struct, meaning it stores data directly, rather than storing a reference to data.
Memory allocation: Since int is a value type, x is stored on the stack if it's a local variable.

Visualization:
x is a box on the stack containing the integer value 1.


2. System.Int32 (struct) - value type
In .NET, int (or System.Int32) is a struct, which is a type of value type.

Struct vs Class: Unlike classes, structs are value types, not reference types. This means they are copied by value rather than by reference when assigned to other variables.
Value Types: Value types directly contain their data. This makes them efficient for small data items, but it means they are immutable when passed between methods unless passed by reference.

Visualization:
Imagine x (which is System.Int32) is a small container holding the number 1. This container is stored directly in memory and doesn't point to any other location.


3. "This struct implicitly extends System.ValueType class"
This is where it gets interesting.

System.ValueType: In .NET, all structs (value types) implicitly inherit from the System.ValueType class, which itself inherits from System.Object. System.ValueType is a special class that allows value types to be treated as objects, enabling boxing (converting a value type to a reference type).
Inheritance in structs: Although System.Int32 is a value type, it can behave like an object because it inherits from System.ValueType, allowing it to be treated like a reference type when necessary.

Visualization:
Picture System.Int32 as a struct in the middle layer:
Base: System.Object
Derived class: System.ValueType
Struct: System.Int32


4. "Therefore int is implicitly a reference type"
While int itself is not a reference type in terms of memory (it's a value type), it can behave as a reference type in specific situations due to the following:

Boxing: When a value type (e.g., int) is assigned to an object or passed where an object is expected, the CLR "boxes" it. Boxing means creating a reference to the value on the heap, so the value can be treated as an object.
Unboxing: This operation is the reverse of boxing, where a boxed value type is extracted back to its original value type.

Visualization:
When you box int x, imagine taking the 1 inside x and placing it inside a heap-based container that x points to. Now, x acts like a reference type because it's pointing to a boxed object.


Full Visualization of the Concepts
int x = 1: x is a variable holding 1 as a value type (stored directly on the stack).

Inheritance Tree:
int → System.Int32 → System.ValueType → System.Object
This structure enables int to interact with reference types when necessary (through boxing).

Boxing example:
object obj = x; (boxes x to obj on the heap, creating a reference type container).

In summary, int remains a value type in .NET, but because it inherits from System.ValueType, it can also behave like a reference type under specific conditions, mainly when boxed into an object.